We said one of the downside of relational database systems they are vertical is that you can't make
them horizontally scalable because in fact for any relational database system you need at all time,
one must know which contains that ground truth about the deed.
Why?
Because this is the only way we can guarantee high level of data consistency between multiple system,
multiple branches in the banking system to access your relational database.
So the problem with relational database and being in a situation where we cannot scale then horizontally,
then we are left off with this scaling vertical.
Now remember, guys, there is an upper limit.
It is how much you can add with a specific capacity of at certain point you reach the physical limit
of the computer hardware and you cannot sustain those database.
Fair enough.
Now you can scale your DB in a relational database system from a micro instances all the way to two
for a 24 x large instance.
And you can scale vertically with a very minimum down time.
Now, with horizontal scaling, you can horizontally scale a relational database or read by creating
any replica object for writing nodes.
You are not having that option at all again because you only can have one master node which contains
that schema of your relational database and the ground truth about you or data system in either.
Yes, you can create up to five read replicas and up to 15 or replication is asynchronous, which means
the data will be moved between the master node, the primary node and the reader replica.
Without any time constraint, there will be asynchronously replicate in Aurora, for example, when
you create an Aurora cluster, you can have up to 15 or a replica and this is an exam question.
So in Aurora it's 15 replicas read replicas.
But in a normal database you can have up to five read replicas like my sequel or Postgres.
Now there is a new version of Amazon Aurora, which is Amazon Aurora Customer List Compute this can
respond to your application automatically and is very effectively intelligence chronicle kind of scaled
the capacity and the start up and shut down.
Those are all the cluster based on the already met in Aurora server list.
You pay for the number of Aurora capacity unit and they are very good for any kind of unpredictable
work.
You could also horizontally scale a database using what a technique of data is the filled with sharding?
No, you can have or without sharding.
Normally the same primary node take all the right load.
And this means if you have a heavy like application, then in this case you will start to see a slow
and the bad before the result is you get to create charm and in this case the database will drive into
multiple shards or multiple nodes and those DB shards are basically work as follows.
For example, if you have a table of employees, all the employee I.D. with even number, they go to
the first shop with an even employee number goes to the first shard and the second shard will go all
employees with odd number.
Now remember, this option is only available when you want to build your database in an easy to you
can't use sharding with Amazon on there.
You could also use a scalability with dynamo the B table and as we know that we Dynamo DB is an equal
database that you can scale up to meet thousands and millions of requests a second in on demand scaling
of dynamo will be you are going to pay per request depending whether you will have a provisioned re
capacity unit or write capacity unit, or you run out of those speed capacity unit of the unit.
Normally use an on demand the scalability for dynamo would you be when you have a spike and a predictable
workload in order to rapidly accommodate that me or however you could use all the scaling and this is
will be available for all in your dynamo be table and they are very good for most application.
So how you can implement Dynamo DB or the scaling.
When you create an ultra scaling policy in Dynamo DB, you can basically specify the consumed capacity
metrics and you populate those to another on a cloud, in a cloud which you can generate.
And as soon as once those capacity units are consumed and there is no capacity unit available in Dynamo
and this is will trigger the order scaling where the ultra scaling will add more capacity units to your
dynamo.
You could also scale through capacity.
You can enable a reading and write.
To hold politicians without throttling.
Now, before we explain what to read and write without the throttle, throttling means because understand
what we mean by politicians.
We know from the cloud of practitioners that a dynamic debate table is going to be divided into politicians.
So if this is our table and we say, for example, the employee I.D. win first, then this is our dynamo
on seven and just accidentally we make the first name to be our partition.
The employee you are most likely to get people with the same name.
Let us take the and you will find there is some dependence on line.
Okay.
Or but in this particular case, if you have more than one person with the first name Sam or above,
you are going to create a hot partition.
And that's what partition means.
The partition itself is very large.
So every time you want to read or write to that partition, you will experience a bad performance.
So when you have one of these hot partition and normally is caused by deciding to use a very bad partition
key, like for example, you can use the partition key like that time of the day to capture, for example,
sensory data.
In this particular scenario, you find each partition for each hour is very large and very hot at the
same time because you keep reading and writing to the same partition.
So you could enable with dynamic DB three than writing to partition without it throttling.
Throttling means you add more capacity unit to read and try to add the partition, and that can automatically
increase the throughput capacity for the partition that receives more.
It's now the scaling through capacity is enabled for every dynamo DB you could use as well an adaptive
capacity for mastering or managing the scalability of your dynamo.
Let us look to this example.
We are for partition.
Let's say the partition is for all people, starting with their family.
Last name eight, then big, then C and then D.
Now the total number of provision capacity for your dynamo meeting table is 400 write capacity unit
up to this level.
If you look here, each partition is consuming 50.
So this is 50 plus 50 plus 50 here and plus 50, which means we are getting now total of 200 write capacity
unit.
If one of those partition is partition for any reason due to a high volume, for example, or let's
say we got multiple employees with the last name is starting with B, then we want to keep rising to
partition in this example.
Then with the aid of adaptive capacity in item would be it will allocate the remaining of the provision
capacity unit to meet the demand of partition for.
So instead of having only 50 up to here, we can just add another 50 adaptive capacity to meet this
side of the demand to this particular partition, even if that happened to be a very hot partition and
we need more capacity in this case, the adaptive capacity can is throttle and increase your allocated
capacity unit from 100 by adding another 50, which makes the total consumed write capacity unit for
partition for 150.
As you can see here, the total consumed capacity in this case is 300.
Still, we are getting and we still have room to add more adaptive capacity because we have available
400 vide capacity.
This is a very important sort of exam.
Normally they ask about this scenario in the solution architect exam, so pay attention to it now adaptive
capacity and this is also a very important this adaptive capacity.
They are not fixing hot partition because you have to fix the whole partition by using a proper partition
key.
For example, if you choose the user I.D. and the application has many user I.D., this make it, for
example, it's an online store.
The same user could do between 5 to 10 orders or 0 to 10 orders within the partition will be relatively
small.
But if you choose, for example, this data stored your captioning session data between users accessing
your website every time they get to or to you store them.
Every time they get five or five, you store them.
This is will be very bad partition key.
Why?
Because this is will make a big partition a big table only for two or two.
And let's say we kept our as well the user I.D. because you only have two options or three options for
a status code.
The item creation date is also a very bad partition.
Why?
Because the creation date of the idea we could create there our ten or 20 or thousands of item in your
table in this case, this.
Make the item table for that particular partition per hour is very large and will be considered as a
partition.
The idea is a good idea if and only if each device access data similar and determine if they are accessing
your data at the same interval or very close to each other, then it is a good choice, but it will
not be a good choice if many devices are tracked.
One is much more popular than all the others because this makes that device which is very popular.
The partition for that device will be very hot because it will get a lot of query, a lot of requests
and a lot of fear.
So this is such a mystery, guys, about this delivery.
So you can use push button scaling to vertically scale any compute capacity of your RDF.
You can read a replica or sharp horizontal scale, your Autodesk DV in instances, and you can use Amazon
Aurora where you can choose up to 15 read replicas.
Aurora serverless data scale resources automatically based on the minimum and the maximum capacity specification.
The RCU and the W the you write Amazon data will be on demand offers a pay per request pricing model
and dynamo DB auto scaling uses Amazon application or scaling to dynamically adjust to provision just
throughput capacity dynamo DB Adaptive capacity works by automatically increasing its robot capacity
for partitions that receive more however.